[Music]
you know people have always been
dreaming of conquering other galaxies
and exploring space far away from our
home but the thing is that there are
enough enigmas in our own Milky Way
galaxy even better there is one right
inside our solar system this mystery is
lurking somewhere on the outskirts of
the planetary system puzzling
astronomers - no n once upon a time
scientists noticed that something
bizarre and inexplicable was causing
chaos out there in space
a mysterious celestial body was
influencing the orbits of six smaller
objects in the Kuiper belt
far far away from our home planet this
something got the name of Planet 9 and a
much more offensive nickname fatty well
no wonder the thing was ten times
heavier than Earth but soon after
astronomers started to research the
hypothetical planet things took an
unexpected turn before I tell you all
about this new development
let me summarize everything we know
about Planet 9 so as I've already
mentioned the thing is massive more than
ten times bigger than Earth and around
five thousand times as large as Pluto
that's why the planet might have had
great gravitational force it also means
that planet nine is likely to be an ice
giant you see rocky planets like Mars or
Earth can't grow bigger than a certain
size because they are well pieces of
rock if they became as huge as Saturn or
Jupiter they were turn into ginormous
gas giants as well but ice giants are
another matter they aren't as massive as
gas giants but have a similar atmosphere
and since it seems that planet nine
doesn't have the impressive size of a
gas giant but is bigger than any rocky
planet there can only be one conclusion
an ice giant if fatty does exist people
will most likely have to rewrite
astronomy books we used to believe that
Neptune
is the farthest planet from the Sun but
now it may turn out that planet 9 is the
champion being 20 times further away
from the center of the solar system than
Neptune in other words it's 56 billion
miles away from the Sun and NASA's new
Horizons probe would need more than 50
years to reach the mysterious planet by
the way the probe got to Pluto after
only nine years of traveling through
space also if you lived on planet nine
your year would last 10,000 to 20,000
earth years that's the time fatting
needs to orbit the Sun because of the
immense distance between these space
objects and if it's difficult for you to
visualize how long it is just think of
this the last time Planet 9 was in the
same place mammoths were still roaming
our planet oh and they were barely a few
million people on the whole earth of
course until scientists see planet 9
with their own eyes they can't say for
sure that it exists but the evidence
they have is quite solid and the chance
that the planet doesn't exist is really
small like one in 15,000 otherwise why
would thirteen space objects outside the
orbit of Neptune
behave so strangely clustering and
tilting in a weird way only if a massive
faraway planet made them all swing in
one direction and since there is no
other massive planetary body in that
area hello planet 9b where astronomers
are on the hunt
obviously with such an enormous distance
separating earth and the hypothetical
planet it's bound to be very difficult
to spot fatty but scientists don't give
up hope
they're looking for the planet using
infrared equipment if planet 9 does
exist it's supposed to leak infrared
radiation but so far all that scientists
have detected is weird gravitational
effects on the outskirts of the solar
system but then what if planet 9 isn't a
planet at all the idea which first
appeared in 2019 suggests that the
object that has created all this
hullabaloo
be a black hole wait wait wait
does it mean it's going to swallow us
and all the solar system
astronomers have divided all black holes
into three groups supermassive black
holes intermediate-mass black holes and
stellar-mass black holes the
supermassive black hole closest to earth
is Sagittarius a perched almost in the
center of our home Milky Way galaxy
such supermassive black holes are
gargantuan they can control the way
stars form and being awake and feeding
they can be the brightest objects in
space but even small black holes are
still way bigger and honestly even more
impressive than our Sun around black
holes there are swirling disks of
material and the whole picture resembles
water going down a drain
black holes generates so much radiation
that even astronomers on earth manage to
detect it with their telescopes but
apart from these impressive Giants and
smaller holes there might be one more
type of black holes primordial the
problem with them is that scientists
have never got any real proof of their
existence they just suppose that there
are primordial black holes somewhere out
there these holes are insanely old and
quite tiny of course by black hole
standards astronomers believe that they
appeared some milliseconds after the Big
Bang and might have witnessed the whole
history of the universe at that time not
even stars or galaxies were born yet by
now the smallest primordial black holes
are likely to have evaporated away but
the bigger ones can still be scattered
around the universe as for how
primordial black holes appeared in the
first place in the very beginning space
wasn't the same in some places it was
hotter in others cooler and some regions
were denser huh sounds like some of the
people I hang out with scientists
suppose that these dense areas could
collapse into primordial black holes but
the most interesting thing is that these
holes are likely to be so small exactly
because they popped up right after the
Big Bang
the longer it took them to appear the
larger they were the difference could
vary from the masks thousands of times
greater than that of the Sun to the
weight of a jellybean but let's return
to planet 9 or shall I call it
primordial black hole 9 now once again
astronomers haven't seen the planet with
their own eyes the only thing that
proves its existence is how it
influences the behavior of other space
bodies but let's not forget that black
holes are also notorious for their
gravitational pull so why don't we
suppose that the thing hiding on the
outskirts of the solar system isn't a
mysterious unidentified planet but a
mini black hole but even if this guess
is correct you have nothing to worry
about
earth isn't in danger primordial black
holes are too small and weak to cause
any serious harm to our planetary system
but at the same time they can mess with
objects careless enough to get too close
but what made astronomers come up with
the idea of primordial black holes at
all for one thing it was an inexplicable
brightening of stars as if some massive
but almost transparent object was
passing in front of them what's more
these stars not only started to shine
brighter for a brief moment but they
also seemed curved as if you were
looking at them through a gigantic
magnifying glass
besides when scientists created a
computer model of a primordial black
hole 5 to 10 times as heavy as Earth and
with an orbit very distant from the Sun
they got really interesting results the
pattern of this model represented the
events happening in the region of the
Kuiper belt a bit too much for it to be
a coincidence and finally a primordial
black hole would explain why
hypothetical planet 9 can't be seen and
doesn't produce infrared radiation but
one of the main reasons why astronomers
would be ecstatic should black 9 turn
out to be a primordial black hole is the
mystery of dark matter you might know
that scientists are still in the dark
yes the pun was intended about what
exactly dark matter is which makes up to
30% of the universe
but guess why primordial black holes
could be the very dark matter
astronomers are searching for or at
least a kind of black matter named
macho's which stands for massive compact
halo objects well makes me believe that
with astronomers being so motivated
we'll soon get to know the real nature
of planet 9 slash primordial black hole
or maybe it's only a half mass black
hole can't wait to find out hey if you
learn something new today then give the
video a like and share it with a friend
and here are some other videos I think
you'll enjoy just click to the left or
right and remember stay on the bright
side of life